evidence: add section explaining evidence (#324)
tendermint/spec: spec/consensus/evidence.md

# Evidence

Evidence is an important component of Tendermint's security model. Whilst the core
consensus protocol provides correctness gaurantees for state machine replication

> that can tolerate up to 1/3 failures, the evidence system looks to detect and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
that can tolerate less than 1/3 failures, the evidence system looks to detect and
```

> gossip byzantine faults of greater than 1/3 in power. It is worth noting that

Reviewer: ```suggestion
gossip byzantine faults whose combined power is greater than  or equal to 1/3. It is worth noting that
```

commit them on chain and inform the application running on top of Tendermint.
Evidence in itself does not punish "bad actors", this is left to the discretion
of the application. A common form of punishment is slashing where the validators
that were caught violating the protocol have all or a portion of their voting
power removed. Evidence, given the assumption that 1/3+ of the network is still
byzantine, is susceptible to censorship and should therefore be considered added
security on a "best effort" basis.

This document walks through the various forms of evidence, how they are detected,
gossiped, verified and committed.

> NOTE: Evidence here is internal to tendermint and should not be confused with
> application evidence

## Detection

### Equivocation

Equivocation is the most fundamental of byzantine faults. Simply put, to prevent
replication of state across all nodes, a validator tries to convince some subset
of nodes to commit one block whilst convincing another subset to commit a
different block. This is achieved by double voting (hence
`DuplicateVoteEvidence`). A successful duplicate vote attack requires greater

> than 1/3 voting power and a network partition between the aforementioned

Reviewer: ```suggestion
than 1/3 voting power and a (temporary) network partition between the aforementioned
```

subsets. This is because in consensus, votes are gossiped around. When a node
observes two conflicting votes from the same peer, it will use the two votes of
evidence and begin gossiping this evidence to other nodes.

```go
type DuplicateVoteEvidence struct {
    VoteA Vote
    VoteB Vote

    // and abci specific fields
}

> ```

Reviewer: I wonder whether it would make sense to put the verification rules right here. If you prefer to keep them in separate section, it would be great if you could put a link here to section `### DuplicateVoteEvidence`. (The same comment applies to light client evidence below)

Author: My aim was to structure the document in terms of lifecycle events i.e. detection, validation, committing and application as opposed to by evidence type

Reviewer: I understand. Then please just add a link to the verification rules. For me, just the data structures without a mention what constitutes valid evidence seems incomplete information, even at this point.

### Light Client Attacks

Light clients also comply with the 1/3+ security model, however, by using a
different, more lightweight verification method they are subject to a
different kind of 1/3+ attack whereby the byzantine validators could sign an
alternative light block that the light client will think is valid. Detection,
explained in greater detail
[here](../light-client/detection/detection_003_reviewed.md), involved comparison
with multiple other nodes in the hope that at least one is "honest". An "honest"
node will return a challenging light block for the light client to validate. If
this challenging light block also meets the
[validation criteria](../light-client/verification/verification_001_published.md)
then the light client sends "forged" light block to the node.

```go
type LightClientAttackEvidence struct {
    ConflictingBlock LightBlock
    CommonHeight int64
}
```

## Verification

If a node receives evidence, it will first try to verify it, then persist it.
Evidence of byzantine behavior should only be committed once (uniqueness) and
should be committed within a certain period from the point that it occurred

> (timely).Timelines is defined by the `EvidenceParams`: `MaxAgeNumBlocks` and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
(timely). Timelines is defined by the `EvidenceParams`: `MaxAgeNumBlocks` and
```

# Evidence

Evidence is an important component of Tendermint's security model. Whilst the core
consensus protocol provides correctness gaurantees for state machine replication
that can tolerate less than 1/3 failures, the evidence system looks to detect and
gossip byzantine faults whose combined power is greater than  or equal to 1/3. It is worth noting that
the evidence system is designed purely to detect possible attacks, gossip them,
commit them on chain and inform the application running on top of Tendermint.
Evidence in itself does not punish "bad actors", this is left to the discretion
of the application. A common form of punishment is slashing where the validators
that were caught violating the protocol have all or a portion of their voting
power removed. Evidence, given the assumption that 1/3+ of the network is still
byzantine, is susceptible to censorship and should therefore be considered added
security on a "best effort" basis.

This document walks through the various forms of evidence, how they are detected,
gossiped, verified and committed.

> > NOTE: Evidence here is internal to tendermint and should not be confused with

Reviewer 2: Given that this ambiguity is important enough to call out, is there a more specific name we could use throughout to make the distinction clear? E.g., "protocol evidence" or "fault evidence", in contrast with "application evidence"?

The trouble with contextually overloaded terms—particularly ones as generic as "evidence"—is that the definition doesn't follow the usage (whereas the name does).

Author: I find that "protocol evidence" or "fault evidence" probably wouldn't help to better distinguish whether it refers to application based evidence or Tendermint based evidence (apps also have protocols).  

Evidence is definitely a broad term. I've seen applications use the term "fraud proofs" to mean incorrect state transitions (in regards to business logic) and If I was an authoritarian dictator I would force them to keep to that term. 

Maybe we could try introduce a distinction by using terms like fault vs fraud to denote the different layers (tm and app)

Reviewer: Thanks for the comment. I think naming is very important. For the scope of this specific document, I feel that replacing "evidence" with "fault evidence" will just clutter the text. At the same time, in this document we do not consider any other kinds of evidence. 

We could rename the title to `# Evidence of Validator Misbehavior`, but then stick with the term "evidence" for the rest of the document.
